Contents of this diskette:
adata . . . . . . . . . .  Database A
bdata . . . . . . . . . .  Database B
cdata . . . . . . . . . .  Database C
ddata . . . . . . . . . .  Database D
edata . . . . . . . . . .  Database E
intro.use . . . . . . .   notes on use (English)
intro.esp . . . . . . .   notas de uso (Espanol)
intro.por . . . . . . .   notas de uso (Portugues)
abbrev.lst . . . . . .   list of codes (English)
abrev.esp . . . . . .   lista de codigos (Espanol)
abrev.por . . . . . .   lista de codigos (Portugues)


Notes for using the databases on this diskette:
This diskette, a companion to the book  "Neotropical Birds: Ecology and
Conservation", offers ASCII file versions of the five databases (A - E)
printed in Part 4 of the book -- Ecological and Distributional Databases'
(by T. Parker, D. Stotz and J. Fitzpatrick).  Database A (file: adata)
includes the zoogeographic and ecological attributes of each bird species
that breeds in the Neotropics.  Database B (bdata) lists the country
occurrences of each of these species.  Databases C and D (cdata and ddata)
contain zoogeographic and ecological information on Neotropical migrant
species (that do not and do breed in the Neotropics, respectively). 
Database E (edata) has equivalent information for austral migrant species. 
Chapter 12 of the book explains the databases in detail.

You should be able to import these data into most relational database
programs on IBM-compatible computers or on Apple computers capable
of handling IBM-formatted diskettes.  Specifics of this importation will
vary with the program used, and some programs may require changes in
formatting.  The fields in the ASCII files are delimited by commas and the
text is enclosed within double quotation marks.  All numeric fields have
been converted to alphanumeric and are treated as text.  For analysis,
conversion of the Numb, CP, RP, and especially Min, and Max fields back
to numeric fields should be helpful. 

The data are coded as in the printed databases in the book.  Please refer to
chapter 2 for the definitions and codes of the different habitat types, and to
chapter 12, "A Guide to the Databases", for definitions and codes of the
other variables. The ASCII file abbrev.lst' contains a list of all codes and
their meanings.  Spanish and Portuguese translations of this introduction
and of the code list are also available ( intro.esp',  abrev.esp',  intro.por',
and  abrev.por').  Following the field names in abbrev.lst, the maximum 
number of characters in that field is in brackets.

Please use the address below if you have comments, suggestions or
corrections, or if you encounter problems in using these databases:

Douglas Stotz, Environmental and Conservation Programs
Field Museum of Natural History
Roosevelt Rd. at Lake Shore Dr.
Chicago, IL 60605 
USA

Fax: (312)-922-1683
E-mail: stotz@fmnh.org

Comments on particular fields within the databases:

Important reminder: 
Database A lists information for the breeding season, while  Databases
C-E list information for the winter season for migrant species (see Chapter
12 for details).

Order and Family -- In the printed databases, these are placed as headers
on separate lines.  In the database files, they are listed as separate fields for
each species, to facilitate analyses on particular orders or families.  For the
passerine families Muscicapidae and Emberizidae, the bird's subfamily has
been entered in the family field.  For Muscicapidae, these are: Turdinae,
Timaliinae, Polioptilinae, and Sylviinae.  For Emberizidae, they are:
Emberizinae, Catamblyrhynchinae, Cardinalinae, Thraupinae, Tersininae,
and Parulinae.

Species -- Some species are treated as trinomials (see chapter 12); their
species field contains both the second and third name in the trinomial, with
the second name in parentheses.

Numb --  Numb' is an ordering field, used to place the species in the
taxonomic order that we follow (see chapter 12).  Numbers range from 1
to 4012, and can include two places to the right of the decimal point
(which are required to produce the order we use for some species).

Min and Max -- Species that reach their minimum or maximum
elevational extreme in the lowlands are assigned a value of  "0" in the
databases in this diskette.  This makes it possible to treat the elevational
fields as numeric fields, simplifying certain analyses. We do not attempt to
indicate elevational distributions within the lowlands because we believe
that absolute elevation does not influence the distribution of birds in the
lowlands.  Local topography, which relates to elevation, may be important,
but only on a local and relative scale.  However, our convention of
assigning "0" to all lowland species means that elevational widths
(Max-Min) may not be correct for the lowland species.  For example,
Poecilotriccus albifacies, which occurs up to 1050 m on the eastern slope
of the Andes  and in the lowlands of southeastern Peru, has its minimum
given as "0."  This would give an elevational range of 1050 m.   However,
the lowest elevation of a known locality for the species is approximately
300 m, so the actual elevational range is 850 m.  

Qmin and Qmax -- Some species have their Min and/or Max elevational
distributions qualified by "?" or "+."  In the databases on this diskette, the
qualifiers have been placed in separate fields (Qmin and Qmax,
respectively).  This allows Min and Max to be treated as numeric fields,
simplifying analyses of elevational patterns.

Sub -- This field contains the subregional code for species restricted to a
single subregion.  Species endemic to a single zoogeographic region but
not restricted to a subregion have an "o" in their subregion field.  Some
species occur in only one Neotropical zoogeographic region, but breed in
areas outside of the Neotropics.  These species are not endemic, and have
no entry in the subregion field.

Nhab -- The total number of habitats to which the species has been
assigned (ranges from 1 to 7).

Nzoo -- The total number of zoogeographic regions in which the species
occurs (ranges from 1 to 22).

Habitats -- We list two series of habitat fields.  The first seven fields --
Hab1 - Hab7 -- are equivalent to the habitat fields in the printed databases. 
We order these fields based on the species' relative preference for the
individual habitat type.  

The following 41 fields are coded for each of the 41 habitats we recognize
(see chapter 2).  These fields indicate presence or absence of the species in
the specific habitat type, with no information on relative preference. 
These fields have four possible conditions: an empty field indicates that
we do not assign the habitat to that species; a "Y" indicates that the species
does use the habitat (no preference indicated); an "E" indicates that the
species occurs along the edges of that habitat (e.g., an "E" in the F1 field is
equivalent to the entry "F1E" in any of the seven habitat fields); a "Q"
indicates that the species' use of the habitat is uncertain (e.g., a "Q" in the
F1 field is equivalent to the entry "F1?" in any of the seven habitat fields). 
These 41 fields facilitate searches and analyses of the database based on
habitat types.

Zoogeographic regions -- The zoogeographic regions, unlike the specific
habitat types, do not reflect any preference by the bird species in question. 
We therefore do no have a single field in the databases that lists all of the
zoogeographic regions of occurrence (as in the printed databases). 
Instead, we give the databases 22 zoogeographic fields, one for each of the
twenty-two regions.  Each of these fields (titled with the code for its
zoogeographic regions -- see chapter 12 and the abbreviations in the 
abbrev.lst' file for the meaning of the codes) has one of three possible
conditions, indicating occurrence in the specific zoogeographic region: an
empty field indicates that the species does not occur in that zoogeographic
region; a "Y" indicates presence in that region (e.g., a "Y" in the ATL field
is equivalent to the entry "ATL" among the zoogeographic regions in the
printed databases); a "Q" indicates uncertain status of the species in that
region (e.g., a "Q" in the ATL field is equivalent to "ATL?" among the
zoogeographic regions in the printed databases).  These 22 fields facilitate
searches and analyses of species by zoogeographic region.